feat: add v13 modals guide (#1060) (#1117)
discordjs/guide: guide/interactions/modals.md

:::

To create a modal you construct a new `Modal`. You can then use the setters to add the custom id and title.

```js {1,7-13}
const { Modal } = require('discord.js');
client.on('interactionCreate', async interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isCommand()) return;
	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		const modal = new Modal()
			.setCustomId('myModal')
			.setTitle('My Modal');
		await interaction.showModal(modal);
	}
});
```
::: tip
The custom id is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters.
:::

As you can see, you construct the modal and assign it a custom id and a title. After you added some user input elements, you will send it as a response to the interaction via `#showModal`.

You are still missing one of these steps - adding inputs. Adding inputs is similar to adding components to messages.

::: warning
If you're using typescript you'll need to specify the type of components your action row holds. This can be done by specifying the generic parameter in `MessageActionRow`.

```diff
- new MessageActionRow()
+ new MessageActionRow<ModalActionRowComponent>()
```

> :::

Reviewer: i think making the guide typescript compatible is a larger endeavour and not something we should selectively apply to a single case

> :::

Reviewer: It makes sense to cover it one way or another, this is fine for now, IMO

			.setTitle('My Modal');
		// Add components to modal
		// Create the text input components
		const favoriteColorInput = new TextInputComponent()
			.setCustomId('favoriteColorInput')
		    // The label is the prompt the user sees for this input
			.setLabel("What's your favorite color?")
		    // Short means only a single line of text
			.setStyle('SHORT');
		const hobbiesInput = new TextInputComponent()
			.setCustomId('hobbiesInput')
			.setLabel("What's some of your favorite hobbies?")
		    // Paragraph means multiple lines of text.
			.setStyle('PARAGRAPH');
		// An action row only holds one text input,
		// so you need one action row per text input.
		const firstActionRow = new MessageActionRow().addComponents(favoriteColorInput);
		const secondActionRow = new MessageActionRow().addComponents(hobbiesInput);
		// Add inputs to the modal
		modal.addComponents(firstActionRow, secondActionRow);
		// Show the modal to the user
		await interaction.showModal(modal);
	}
});
```

Restart your bot and invoke the `/ping` command again. You should see a popup form resembling the image below:

<img width=450 src="./images/modal-example.png">

## Receiving modal submissions

> Modals are received via an interaction. You can check if a given interaction is a modal by invoking the `#isModalSubmit()` method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modals are received via an interaction. You can check if a given interaction is a modal by invoking the `Interaction#isModalSubmit()` method:
```

```js {2}
client.on('interactionCreate', interaction => {
	if (!interaction.isModalSubmit()) return;
	console.log(interaction);
});
```

## Extracting data from modal submissions

> You'll most likely need to read the data sent by the user in the modal. You can do this by accessing the `#fields` instance field on the interaction. From there you can call `#getTextInputValue` with the custom id of the text input to get the value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll most likely need to read the data sent by the user in the modal. You can do this by accessing the `fields` property from the interaction. From there, you can call `getTextInputValue()` with the custom id of the text input to get the value.
```
